
The storytelling module transititions perfectly from M1.1 where we discussed whether or not history can be retold, reinterpreted, repackaged in a consumer-friendly way while still preserving its essential truths and impact (a la T.Mills Kelly and the Last American Pirate) to M1.2 where we dove into how historical narratives are structured in museums, be it virtual or physical. The theme I found was how storytelling can be made interactive and inclusive. I found this section paticularly interesting for two reasons. The first being that I'm currently doing research into the decolonization of museums, repatriation of Indigenous artefacts, and Indigenous cultural representation (or lack of) in museums. Two readings got me thinking deeper into the influence not only storytelling, but storytellers have, especially when there are blatant biases, flagrant racism, or just downright ignorance, was fascinating to me. The first was "Storytelling in Virtual Museums: Engaging A Multitude of Voices In Visual Computing for Cultural Heritage," which delves into who is authorized to tell the stories behind culture preserved in museums (which are a colonial project themselves, since most cultural artifacts were never made to be stored away, but used, reused, and sent back to nature; living culture). It made me question the authority of the museums as cultural havens who deem what is significant and true in history, which leads to a lack of diversity of voices in the retelling of history. 

A key idea that I learned and can now include in my research is Russian philosopher Mikhail Bakhtin's "dialogism" and "heteroglossia" which is described as the solution to including a multitude of voices in a narrative. According to him, there should be no such thing as an "official’ point-of-view, one ideological position, or one discourse that takes priority above all other, but instead an equal consideration of all interpretations, world views, and opinions - chaotic, but fair. 

The second reading/recording that impacted me was "White Protagonism and Imperial Pleasures in Game Design," a speech given by Meghna Jayanth which discusses decolonizing video games and an acknowledgement of that we do not live in a post-colonial world and instead countinue to leave under Anglo-American imperialism. Just as in some museum narratives, especially that centering around Indigenous history, video games prove that the "capitalism colonialism," as describes it, is still prevalant. This is seen through the popularity of games related to warfare or gun violence, where war and conquest, central colonial ideas, are the main ideas. Even the concepts of the "white protagonist" and the "model designer," are further incriminating evidence. I learned a new term: "capitalism-colonialism," which she describes as entities used to gain profit and steal your attention with complete disregard for human needs.

I am not a gamer and do not have much video-gaming experience, so this course introduced me to the world of video games, specifically as a mode of storytelling and conveying history in an interactive, 'playful,' and engaging way. It was suprising to learn that history does not have to be rigid with concrete facts, narratives, and timelines. It is not purely academic, which is when I learned about "public history" from "Playing with the past: history and video games (and why it might matter)."

I learned a lot of new concepts behind video game conception such as "attention-seeking/possesive design" which is when games guilt-trip you for exiting and reward you when you're active. I also learned that there are distinguishing factors between accuracy and authenticity, which I learned from "Playing with the past" and from our guest lecturer,  Dany Guay-Belanger. I found that these two definitions can be applied in a variety of situations beyond video gaming, especially in journalism, where authenticity is everything in regards to credibility and trustworthiness in sharing fact versus pure fiction. According to Guay-Belanger  accuracy is being exact in your representation/reproduce of the original source. Authenticity build credibility and the original source is put forth. Guay-Belanger's defnitions of accuracy versus authenticty can be tied into retellings of history/storytelling - to what extent can we bend history to make it more palatable, more visually appealing, more marketable? 

While I'm unsure what my Unessay will be about at this point, after playing with digital storytelling tools like Twine and Mural, I hope to able capture the importance of dialogism as a POC myself, and authenticity in whatever I come up with.


